If it's coming through before we... We're testing
first. One, two, three, four. One, two, three,
four. Try a sentence. We're testing. One, two,
three, four. One, two, three, four. This is warm
Friday, August 11, the year 2000, and I'm on the
ninth floor of the Rudder Tower. I have the delight
of chatting with Jeanette Ferris about student
years just a few years ago. To introduce yourself
to this process, Jeanette, talk about, describe
family, growing up, where, when. Tell us about
yourself before you arrived in College Station.
In the 50s? I'm a product of Breckenridge High
School, Breckenridge, Texas, famous buckaroos,
green and white, big football town. My family
consisted of my husband, Don, and two children,
Donna K, and Randy, who were Donald was born while
we were at Texas A&M during 1956 through the years
through 60. My son was born after I departed from
here in the year 1960. And I was a student wife while
my husband was pursuing a petroleum engineering
degree. But let's back up. Your parents, where did
they grow up? My mother grew up in Oklahoma, my
father grew up in Georgia, and met in Texas, and I
spent my entire childhood in Breckenridge,
Texas, living there, and my father was a rancher.
My mother kept the house, and she died when I was a
teenager, and we did ranching and all the chores
that ranching requires. And you finished high
school in what year? 1950, salutatorian of my
class. And then you got to College Station? 1956
with my husband when he arrived as a freshman at
Texas A&M. He spent a stint in the service and we
worked in between times from graduation. We
married in 1952. Why did you all come to A&M? Why
this place?
state school low tuition low rent open admissions
and there was not there was not any particular
aggie tradition in either family neither family
and a good engineering petroleum engineering
department and he was going to major in petroleum
engineering because he knew a lot about the oil
field he'd grown up with the oil field his parents
were from the oil field did you all come to visit
before you moved Well, we came to visit knowing we
wanted to move here. We just came to look at it and
see what the employment opportunities were for
student lives on campus. What did you, in that
first visit, describe what you saw, what you
found?
Well, I guess we knew that we wanted to come here,
and we talked about job opportunities. A lot of
student wives worked on campus. That truly was the
staff on campus, and so there was a lot of turnover
as students graduated or departed. So
opportunities for the wife to work and the husband
to go to school and for the husband as a student to
find part-time work was very high. And it appeared
that we had student housing on campus in what was
called the old student house college view college
view there was a waiting list for college view so
that we knew that we could not get in the first
semester but we could probably find something off
campus for the first semester all right now you
came to visit about when to we can't think no to
check things out we came in the summer before the
fall of 1956. okay and then he enrolled did you have
any contact any We had some friends down here that
they were in school. He was working on a master's.
She was a student wife, and we had known her from my
hometown. He was not from my hometown, but we knew
him. But you all didn't know any faculty member or
staff member, nobody to open the door for you? No.
All right, then when you all moved, about what time
of the year did you leave Breckenridge? We came in
either in August or early September of 56. Usually
classes didn't start until after Labor Day, so we
probably moved here in August of 1956. As much as
you can recall, describe what belongings you
brought with you. Oh, that was easy. We brought it
in one small trailer pulling behind a 1956
Chevrolet Impala. You had a new car? We had a new
car. What was in the trailer? Clothes, pots and
pans, dishes, silverware. No furniture? No
furniture. No furniture. And let's see, you had
one little one? No. Oh, not yet. She was born in 57.
Oh, okay. And do you remember how much money y'all
brought with you? Well, we had a little money saved
because my husband had been in service and I had
been working the two years that he'd been in
service. So we had a little savings when we came.
And he had the GI Bill. And he had the GI Bill, that's
correct. All right. And do you remember when he
applied for admission and when you heard a
response?
When we came in the summer, I'm sure he applied and
We must have heard right away because I even
interviewed for jobs while I was down here. I
interviewed at the registrar's office, the
placement office, and one other office, which I
can't remember. Didn't hear from them, but we
rented a post office box while we were here, so we'd
have a mailing address. The day we moved in with our
trailer pulled behind that Chevrolet Impala. We
went to the post office, that was on a Friday. I had a
notice from the placement office that I was to
report for work on Monday morning. And needless to
say, we scrambled for me to find a dress and some
pantyhose so I could get to work on Monday morning,
but we were elated. You arrived what day, Friday?
On a Friday, or a Saturday, I can't remember which,
but we went to the post office, we had a key. Where
did you find a place to live? We're the Nations
Bank's. corner of Texas University. What's the
name of the bank today? Oh, okay. What's the name of
the bank today? I don't know. It's changed names a
few times. There were some garage apartments
located on that area of Texas Avenue and
University where the bank sits today. It was an
upstairs apartment. You parked your garage
underneath, and the rent was very cheap. Do you
remember what it was? Probably $50 a month, maybe.
Maybe $50 a month. That's probably about what it
was worth. It had linoleum floors over the
hardwood. And then the corners, I remember that
the linoleum was nailed down. I couldn't figure
out why when we moved in in September, but when
winter came, I knew why because the wind whipped up
and it just raised the linoleum up because the
boards weren't completely together. It was
furnished, yes. And so you reported for work
where? At the placement office for Mr. Wendell
Horsley and Mr. Bill Hensel. And do you remember
what the pay was, the starting? I don't know
exactly, but I'm sure it was not more than $150 a
month, but that seemed like a really good salary to
us at that time. Right, and then classes began
about when? probably the day after Labor Day at
that time. And as a freshman, it seemed like Don
came in, went to the, and he was in the basic
division, is what it was called then, instead of
general studies, and he reported as a freshman a
few days before the classes start for
orientation, sort of. Right, and what were your
duties in that first task? I was working with
graduating seniors preparing their credentials
for interviewing, and so I had to sit down with
them, write their resumes, and put it in a format
that would present their credentials so that when
the companies came to see what graduates fit with
their interview schedules, we had them all in
file, make sure their transcripts were in there
and their letters of reference or reference
forms. I could use either one. Share, if you can,
share some recollections of some plus and minus
experience with those resume developments.
There had to be some goofy things that students did
or didn't do. Well, we tried to set up a standard
format to try to force them to answer certain
questions. And of course, I guess in some ways
there was always that feeling that they were
padding their resume. But most of them were really
sincere. They'd bring in documentation that
indicated they were a member of tall beta pi or some
of the academic societies our engineers council
we knew most of the a lot of the students on campus
there was only about 7,000, 8,000 students on
campus at that time, so it was not hard to read the
newspaper and know a lot about the students. In the
fall, you had about 8,000 students. In the spring,
you usually had about 7,000. And then in the
summer, you only had, if you had 2,000 enrollment,
that was a high number. So we knew a lot about them.
We could verify their grade point ratio. We could
verify their grade point ratio in their major
because we could take their transcript and
actually figure that out. So it was not too hard.
Our goal, the placement office at that time wanted
a one page resume. So there wasn't a lot of room for
us to put a lot of verbiage in there. Do you remember
any goofy efforts by any student to kind of fudge a
little and maybe increase their resume more than
factually it deserved? It's been too long,
Haskell. I can't remember those. And you reported
to whom? I reported directly to Bill Hensel, and he
reported to Wendell Horsley. And what were the
normal working hours? 8 to 5 during the week, but
during a lot of the placement time, we had to work on
Sunday because the office was also responsible
for continuing education activities that came
in. So a lot of the conferences started on Sunday.
So, excuse me, many times we had to work on Sunday
for a registration for continuing education
activities. And you all were located where
physically? What building? We were in a wooden
building.
that has long ago been destroyed, of course. And I
can't remember where it was located on campus. I
just don't remember where it was located. But it
was an old wooden building. And this was under the
reported to Mr. Heaton, I presume. I do not know. I
don't know who the placement office reported to at
that time. Alright, describe this freshman
getting in the routine of studying and classes and
so forth. Well, he found out very quickly that he
didn't have enough background to really be a
successful petroleum engineer. So he went to A&M
Consolidated and bought some of the calculus and
algebra books and studied on his own so that he
could begin his studies for petroleum
engineering. He studied that at the same time as
taking his courses. And they took anywhere from
usually about 18 hours per semester. But I've seen
his transcript in many semesters. Don took as many
as 21 hours a semester and he graduated about fifth
or sixth in his class in petroleum engineering
when he graduated in four years i was going to say
and when you all arrived you assumed it was that the
undergraduate years were going to be four years
but at the same time since don had some oil field
experience he didn't have to do a summer
internship so and my job required that i worked 12
months out of the year so he took the college
catalog and figured that he could get a business
degree at the same time he was getting his
petroleum engineering degree by going summers
and the long terms and so when he graduated in four
years he actually graduated with two degrees one
in business administration and one in petroleum
engineering and still graduated with very good
grades all right and as you all are getting started
where did you first begin to make some friends and
who were they Well, you made friends with the
people that he was in class with because he began to
know a lot of them. Robert Lacey became a very, very
close friend of my husband's and probably was his
best friend until the day my husband died. What was
Lacey doing there? He was a student. He and Don were
both students. They started together and
graduated together. And Mr. Lacy started out in
petroleum engineering, but his second year, he
changed to math and graduated in math. But for the
first two years, they took a lot of courses
together. Even in the summer, they took calculus
and trig and calculus and geometry and some of
those courses together.
Other friends. I became friends with people I
worked with at the placement office because their
husbands were also in school. One was Daisy
Smithwick and her husband was Dick Smithwick, who
was playing football here at that time under Bear
Bryant, and he had been one of those that went to
West Texas at Junction. Junction. And was headed
for vet school. And his senior year, he realized
that he couldn't play football and be a
veterinarian. He couldn't keep up his grades, so
he chose to be a veterinarian and dropped out his
senior year. We became fast friends, and we're
still friends today, and that's a 44. That's a
44-year friendship, I guess. That's right. So
it's mine with Mr. Lacy at the same time. And then we
became friends with a lot of the students and their
wives that Don studied with. There was lots of
study sessions. Most of them who were in petroleum
engineering spent a lot of time in the Petty Lab. So
we were left by, the wives were left by ourselves a
lot, and we became fast friends.
In that first fall, What was it like to go to Aggie
football games for you as a new arrival? Well, it
was exciting. I can remember one of the worst
storms we had was we were playing TCU and a storm
came in and the light poles bent completely over
and we didn't realize how dangerous it was as we sat
there on that stadium and played. That was our
entertainment. we really didn't have a lot of
money for entertainment, so the football games
were about our only entertainment. We went to Town
Hall occasionally, which was held in Gine Hall at
that time, and of course Gine Hall is no longer on
campus either, but that was about the extent of our
entertainment, maybe a once a month movie.
Alright, with his tough academic load and your
job, normally you left home what time in the
morning? During long semesters, we would leave
home about 7.30. My job was at 8 and classes were at
8. However, in the summertime, classes started at
7 because there were no air-conditioned
buildings. And so the classes started at 7 and I
would go to work when he came to campus because we
only had one car. And then with his student jobs, we
delivered the paper in the summer to... the
student apartments, and so we'd get up at four and
deliver papers. Which paper? The Eagle, I think.
The Eagle? Yes, the Eagle. I'm not sure it was
called Eagle at that time. I think it had a longer
name, but we'd deliver the Eagle or the Houston
Post. Maybe it was the Houston Post. I guess it was
the Houston Post. And then we'd go home and shower.
Do you remember what y'all made for the paper job?
Oh, probably if we made $100 a month, we felt good
about it. We needed the $100, so we did that. All
right, now, did he have the GI Bill? He did have the
GI Bill. Student paper. Student paper. Your
full-time job. And then he served as apartment
manager for a few of the complexes over in the
student housing. Okay. But you lived that whole
first year in the garage apartment? No, we lived
only, we got to move during the spring semester to
College View. Oh. I don't remember, we didn't get
to move the very first part of the year. Sometime
during the term, somebody moved out and we were on
the list. So our number was up and we moved there and
we moved sometime in the late spring of 57.
Describe as much as you can a College View
apartment. Well one thing about it if you serve
soup you had to make sure that you didn't fill the
bowl full because it wasn't level and so the soup
would spill out so you the floors weren't very
level they were two bedroom un-air-conditioned
bunk beds in one room not even a full bed in the other
room but I'd call a three-quarter bed a bus couch, a
rocking chair, a little wooden table, very, very
tiny kitchen, very small shower bath, no tub, and
the closets had no doors on them. They were just
stalls for closets. Washing machine? No, no
washing machine, no dryer. But there was a
refrigerator. There was a refrigerator, and
there was a plug for a washing machine. So that was
our big purchase during the spring of 57 was to
purchase a washing machine. What about a dryer? We
never owned a dryer while we lived there. So you
used a solar dryer? Used a solar dryer, hung them on
the clotheslines. And matter of fact, one of the
incidents that my husband had to resolve was a
fight between two women using the clothesline
because you were assigned a certain line to hang
your laundry on because there were eight
apartments in each building and so you took your
line and no more when your clothes dried you could
hang additional clothes so it was it was an
interesting concept lots of interesting
conversations took place at the clothesline uh
about what what were what were student wives
concerned about in those days
survival and child care A lot of the married people
did have children. We had our first child November
of 57 when Don was a sophomore here. And there were
no daycare centers. There was no university
daycare center and very few commercial ones in
town. So you had to find an individual who was
willing to keep your child. There were one or two of
the women in the barracks who would take care of
other children, but those were few and far
between. All right, as this child is on the way, you
worked until about... I worked on Thursday. She
was born on Saturday. Okay. There was no maternity
leave. Maternity leave did not exist at Texas A&M
at that time. And your doctor, do you remember who
the... Dr. Gephardt was my doctor. At old St.
Joseph's? At old St. Joseph's Hospital, that's
correct. And then I was off work for five weeks. And
then I started working and you had to terminate
because your job was not held for you since there
was no maternity leave. And then when she was five
weeks old, I started working in the dean's office
in the College of Engineering working on their
ECPD accreditation. They had someone working on
it in the daytime, so I would take her car bed up at
night and work on the reports, and my husband would
study while I worked. And then on weekends I would
work, either Don Keper or Mr. Charlie Crawford's
wife actually took care of my little baby. He was
the associate dean of engineering. And how many
hours a week were you working at that point? Oh,
probably 20, 30 hours a week, and then I hadn't been
there about six or seven weeks, and they offered me
a full-time job, and so I went to work full-time for
them.
about January of 1958. You don't remember what the
pay was, any of those? Well, probably $200 a month
at a max. And then I worked there until my husband
graduated in May of 1960. And in the 60s, I was
pregnant again. And the maternity leave policy at
Texas A&M at that time was you had to terminate at
six months. That was a requirement. You had to
bring a note or letter from your doctor that said
you were six months pregnant and you had to
terminate. So my husband graduated on about the
15th of May and I think I was six months pregnant the
15th of May and so I managed to work till he
graduated and a paycheck came in in June from Arco,
the company he chose to go to work for. Alright,
let's go back to those
student years. What courses do you remember for
him were important because of who was teaching it
or what he learned? What were the, what seemed to be
the meaningful? Well, of course, his main
interests were the petroleum engineering
courses, and they were the hardest. Who were some
of the special teachers? Dr. Bass. Bass? Dr. Bass.
Dr. Russell over in geology, you took a lot of
geology courses.
Calhoun was not... Calhoun, he was not one of Don's
teachers. If he was here, he was not teaching. He
didn't take any courses under him. Who did your
husband go to for advice and counsel? There wasn't
a lot of advice and counsel. After you got to be a
junior or senior, usually your major professors,
you could go to them and ask for advice, but most of
the time you were pretty much on your own and maybe
one or two in business because he went over to work
out a degree plan for business while he was here
doing that. But Charlie Randall wasn't yet
associate dean. No, Charlie Ransdell was still in
the basic division, and no, he was not an
associate. Who headed petroleum then, do you
remember? Who the senior person was, the key
person? Who's the building named for? I want to say
Hal Booty. I can't remember who was head of the
department. I just don't remember that at this
time. When you went to work in engineering, let's
shift to that, uh where was the dean's office it was
in francis hall uh second floor francis hall and
the dean was well when i went to work fred benson was
the dean and mr harrington we had just
well we did a lot of work for mr harrington had he
just left the dean ship or had he left the vice
president's position i think vice president vice
president position but we did a lot of work for mr
harrington i'm not sure why but we did describe
Fred Benson as the dean? Oh, Fred Benson was always
a gentleman, always a gentleman. Very stoic, very
quiet man, but very effective. During the time
that I worked for him, a handsome man. He could have
doubled for Clark Gable, and as a matter of fact, I
remarked about that once, and someone said, well,
they weren't sure they saw that resemblance, and
one day I got an article that was sent in the mail to
him and at the top of it it had written across
Gabriel Benson but he yes he was a wonderful dean
and only concerned about the students and the
academic life at Texas A&M served on the
facilities committee he was a civil engineer and
he was also head of TTI at that time and so that was a
joint venture and his remark I remember him saying
I will never sign another building be built on this
campus that's not air conditioned and air
conditioning did start with a few buildings in the
early 60s. You said that he was a you talked about
his qualities give some examples of his
thoughtfulness to the staff. When my daughter was
about six months old I had to have major surgery on
an emergency basis and Since my parents were
deceased and Don's parents lived in New York, I
didn't really have anybody to take care of the
child while I was in the hospital and my husband was
in school. And unbeknownst to me, Fred Vinson went
home and asked his wife, Marge, and his youngest
child's name was Clark. He said, Marge, do you
think we could take Clark's baby bed out of the
attic and take care of that baby for Jeanette. I
found that out much later and didn't know it at the
time. Of course I made arrangements for someone to
keep my daughter, but I didn't know he'd even
consider such. And of course Margie's answer was
yes, they would take care of that baby. Now I've
also heard that he had certain guidelines as to
what things were to be done and not to be done. give
some examples of the guidelines in the office,
things he did not put up with. He didn't put up with,
I guess I shouldn't say he didn't put up with, but he
certainly objected to anyone who
wasn't true to their marriage and stepped outside
those lines if a department head were a
not being as faithful to his wife as he thought he
should, or there were rumors floating, he'd call
that person in, and if he thought that any student
had been mistreated, he'd call the department
head in. He was always very, he was very supportive
of his department heads, but at the same time, he
was also very concerned about his students. And
how did he treat the staff, the office staff?
With great respect. I never saw him chew anyone in
the office out, ever. What did you realize early on
were the, for you as a member of the staff, were the
guidelines though? I worked with J.G. McGuire a
lot who worked on the co-op program and worked with
all the students who were on probation. So we saw a
lot of problem students and Mr. Benson expected us
to handle our job unless the situation got very hot
so to speak and If I did my job and did a good job, I was
rewarded for it. I was always there for a merit
increase if there were any merit increases to be
done. And also he trusted those unless he had a
reason not to. So I never, if you didn't break that
trust, it was there. What did a young woman, her
physical appearance, how did a young woman
prepare herself in what she wore and her hair and
her makeup and so forth in those days? Well, we wore
dresses. There were no pants on campus at that
time. We all wore dresses. They were certainly
below the knees. We wore hose, even though the
building was not air-conditioned. We were
expected to wear hose. And I can remember how
miserable it was to be in hose and a dress and no air
conditioning. There were a few fans on the floor to
try to keep us cool, but that was not very
effective. And we didn't have a lot of clothes, but
you didn't have to have a variety. We didn't wear
suits, just dresses. Did people drink coffee at
their desk in those days? Yes, but you also got a
coffee break. You got about a 15-minute break, and
if you had a large staff, they would divide it up.
Some go in the coffee room at one time, sometimes
others. always somebody on the telephones in the
front door, so to speak. And usually Mr. Benson
would join us in the coffee room and be very relaxed
and visit with the staff. That's how I got to know
them. What about smoking? There was no smoking in
the office. It might have been allowed, but no one
smoked. So we never thought about smoking. None of
the women in the office smoked, as far as you knew?
No. Did some of the men, some of the deans, did they
No,
not in the 50s. I don't remember any of them who
smoked. Mr. Crawford didn't, of course, and Mr.
Benson didn't, and Mr. McGuire, and Dr. Winerdi
didn't. So, no, I don't remember any of them
smoking in the office. Right. Describe the staff.
When you began, describe the professional staff,
Benson and who were the other professionals in the
office. Dr. Charles Crawford, who had been... at
one time, I believe, head of the mechanical
engineering department, was the associate dean.
Dr. Richard Winerdi was hired while I was actually
there. He was the youngest full professor on this
campus that was hired from 58 to 60. His major was
also petroleum engineering.
With Crawford, what was his duty? He was in charge
of reporting, accreditation, the professional
side of the house. Mr. Benson always chaired his
department head's council. Mr. Crawford sat in,
but Mr. Benson was always there to handle that. So
policy issues usually came from the dean. Mr.
Crawford might make some recommendations to him,
but usually the policy issues were decided by Mr.
Benson and the department heads. All right. This
young man, Winerdi, make believe I didn't know
him. Describe him in that era. He was a very dynamic
figure, extremely intelligent. I'm sure genius
intelligence came on.